# Memory Consolidation Task

## Task Description:</b>
Participants completed a word-pair recall task that was adapted from previous studies examining sleep-dependent memory consolidation (Marshall, Helgadóttir, Mölle, & Born, 2006; Plihal & Born, 1997; Westerberg et al., 2012). The task involved an encoding phase, two short delay cued recall phases, and one long delay cued recall phase. The night of arrival, participants completed the encoding phase and the two short delay cued recall phases. During the encoding phase, participants studied 50 related word pairs for 4-seconds each. The words were randomized, except for the two words that were added at the beginning and end of the task to control for primacy and recency effects. Throughout the first short delay cued recall phase, participants were shown the first word of all the studied word pairs one at a time and instructed to verbally recall the other word. Participants had 3.5 seconds to recall the other word in the pair before a tone sounded and the correct answer was revealed for 4 seconds. In the second short delay cued recall phase, participants were tested on half of the studied word pairs using the same procedure as the first cued recall phase, except the correct answer was not given. In the morning, participants were tested on the other half of the studied word pairs. Correctly recalled words during the second short delay cued recall phase were used to compute evening memory performance, and performance on the morning long delay cued recall task was used to compute morning memory performance. 

## Analysis:</b>
The percent of correctly recalled words were calculated during the second short-delay free recall night and during the long-delay free recall morning task. Memory change scores were morning performance (proportion of correctly recalled words during the long-delay free recall phase) minus evening performance (proportion of correctly recalled words during the second short-delay free recall phase; Mander, Rao, Lu, Saletin, Lindquist, et al., 2013b). Higher memory change scores indicated fewer incidences of forgetting across the night interval. 
